Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture.
Quick tip on sliding now we've touched upon sliding in the last lecture when we were talking about loop
cut and slide and you saw that we could move that loop cut backwards and forwards.
That is the act of sliding but we can do that individually with vertices edges and faces so as you can
see we've got a vertex selected here.
If I was to go ahead and slide that it will slide along any of the edges that are already there.
Now this is incredibly useful when manipulating any of the existing geometry that we have on our model.
Let's go find out more.
Okay.
So we're going to start with our default cube going to zoom in slightly and go into edit mode and we'll
start with vertex select.
If we go ahead and select a single vertex and press the G key twice now that turns on sliding that's
all there is to it.
And now we can see that this vertex will move along the edges that already exist.
If we do the same thing with Edge select turned on it will move along the faces of just G once will
do that.
And the second G will help slide this along the faces of already exist and with face select it will
slide along long press G twice.
It'll slide along the existing edges that exist that make up that face.
Now one thing to bear in mind if I accept that slide and have a look at the operator panel we're not
moving in an amount we're moving it a factor.
So 50 percent if we wanted this to be half high it would be point five.
And we've got some other options here that may be suitable depending on the model that you're doing.
But that's something to bear in mind that as you're moving it you're actually moving it relative to
the overall size.
In this case of the edges that make up this cube with zero being in the middle minus one being 100 percent
one way and one being 100 percent the other way course in this case we just want point five.
There we go.
Now this is going to be useful through out your modelling and that's why it's just a quick tip.
But I want you to use the skills that you've just learned now in a quick micro challenge if you remember
the base of our pyramid is currently two meters high.
I'd like you to use edge slide rather than just moving in order to shrink it.
So it's only one meter high like all of the other steps of our model, pause the video now and give that's a
go.
Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's go ahead now and open up our pyramid.
There we go.
So we're gonna have to go round in face select at the very bottom we see that it's not it's not actually
on the ground plan at the moment it kind of goes beneath.
So if we go and have a look at the bottom we're gonna have to select more than one face so let's go
ahead and do that with those three faces selected.
I'm going to go G G.
Now I know that you could just go G Z one at this case but I'm going to practice the skill we've just
learnt and indeed show you that there's another way of doing this.
Now we remember it's relative we just discussed that.
So it's very tempting to hit one and wonder where where it's gone you know it was too high you only
want to move it by one but actually in this case we want to move it by point 5.
Whilst it's locked on those axis there if you move your mouse it may lock to another place which will
end up looking a bit horrible.
So we just move it back to the right place and I'm just gonna press Enter to confirm that I don't need
to do anything else I don't need to adjust our operator panel at all I'm happy with how that looks brilliant.
So a nice straightforward challenge there.
Hope you've now got a pyramid with the base at Z equals zero and I'll see you all in the next lecture.